---
date: 'Jan 22'
description: a little bit of TTFB and CDN
tags:
  - performance
  - TTFB
  - CDN

title: Optimize ttfb and CDN
---

# [optimize ttfb](https://web.dev/optimize-ttfb/)

## TTFB : Time To First Byte

consider is good when TTFB is within 0.8 seconds or less

it's not Core Web Vitals(Largest Contentful Parint, First Input Delay, Cumulative Layout Shift) though.

## How to Measure

check with `Server-Timing`

## Optiomize TTFB

1. platform-specific guidance
2. hosting, hosting hosting - rule of thumb is to ensure that the website's host is capable of handling the traffic you send it to.
3. Use CDN [(Content Delivery Network](https://web.dev/content-delivery-networks/))
4. avoid multiple page redirect
5. stream markup to the broswer - e.g.) React의 경우 서버사이드 렌더링이 가능한데, steraming markup을 위한 server methods를 사용할 수 있다. 그러면 리액트 서버 API 가 전체 응답을 렌더하는 걸 기다리지 않고 전송할 수 있게 된다.
6. use a service worker - service work acts as a proxy between the browser and the server
7. The 103 Early Hints header

# [CDN](https://web.dev/content-delivery-networks/)

> A content delivery network consists of a network of servers that are optimized for quickly delivering content to users. Although CDNs are arguably best known for serving cached content, CDNs can also improve the delivery of uncacheable content. Generally speaking, the more of your site delivered by your CDN, the better.

## CDN server

CDN servers are located closer to users than origin servers and therefore have a shorter round-trip time (RTT) latency.<br/>
CDN caches eliminate the need for a request to travel to the origin server.

## How it works

When a CDN is used to deliver resources from the origin, a new connection is established between the client and a nearby CDN server.

## Caching

1. add resource to the cache

   > the most common one is to have CDN "pull" resources as they are needed - that is "origin pull"

2. remove resources from the cache
   > 1. cache eviction
   > 2. purging
3. cacheable resources
   > it depends on it's public or private; static of dynamic

## Improving cache hit ratio

An effective CDN setup will serve as many resources as possible from the cache. This is commonly measured by cache hit ratio (CHR) - is defined as the number of cache hits divided by the number of total requests during a given time interval.
