---
categories:
  - svg
  - css
date: 'Jan 18'
description: svg is not easy unless you study
slug:
tags:
  - viewbox
  - css

title: SVG mistakes
---

## SVG mistakes

### view box

The `viewBox` is a common point of confusion when working with SVG. It’s technically fine to use inline SVG without it, but we would lose one of its most significant benefits: scaling with the container. At the same time, it can work against us when improperly configured, resulting in unwanted clipping.

Viewbox 에서 벗어난다면 overflow="visible" 를 추가해서 볼 수 있다. But if we also apply a `background-color` to the SVG or if we have other elements around it, things might look a little bit off.

the best option will be to edit the `viewBox` to show that part of the coordinate system that was hidden

SVG is an infinite canvas
The **viewport** is a window frame on the infinite canvas. Its dimensions are defined by `width` and `height` attributes, or in CSS with the corresponding `width` and `height`properties

The **`viewBox`** is defined by four values. The first two are the starting point at the upper-left corner (`x` and `y` values, negative numbers allowed).

### Zooming

We can change the last two values inside the `viewBox` to zoom in or out of the image. The larger the values, the more SVG units are added to fit in the viewport, resulting in a smaller image. If we want to keep a 1:1 ratio, our `viewBox` width and height must match our viewport width and height values.

### Width and Height

Add a width or height, whether as a presentation attribute, inline in the style attribute, or in CSS. Avoid using height by itself, particularly when it is set to `100%` or `auto`. Another workaround is to [set the right *and* left values](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#:~:text=Most%20of%20the,as%20auto.).

### Use `fill` and `stroke` colors

### Missing IDs

### Clipping and masking

If an SVG is unexpectedly clipped and the `viewBox` checks out alright, I usually look at the CSS for `clip-path` or `mask`

### Namespace

Did you know that SVG is an XML-based markup language? Well, it is! The namespace for SVG is set on the `xmlns`attribute:

Svg bible ->
[https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/using-svg-with/9781491921968/](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/using-svg-with/9781491921968/)
